I took 16 000 therapists there's only
three things wrong with every person
that turns up at your door first of all
Marissa up here the worldwide renowned
therapist was royalty International
CEOs and Olympic athletes this woman
definitely knows a thing or two thousand
about how we take control of our
thoughts eighty percent of your success
is down to your beliefs but it also it
damages so many people because if you're
thinking I'm not good enough smart
enough attractive enough your mind's job
is to make your thoughts real even if
it's not true a classic example of sex
so many of my clients couldn't conceive
because their husband didn't have enough
sperm but when men have sex with a
stranger they triple their sperm count
and really damages so many people
because it's an impossible expectation
to live up to so many people have
affairs not because they don't love
their partner because they're missing
out but it's all about what you have
chosen to believe so you've got to
reverse that language and the other
thing that people do a lot it really
messes up your sex life to call your
partner mommy or daddy because
Marissa how do I avoid sugar it seems to
grab me food has memories not the
chocolate it's the feeling you felt when
you couldn't have it and you can give
yourself the feeling without the thing
anyway it's really easy too how should I
hypnotize you so we can change it let's
do it now okay close your eyes
and here's the magic sentence that
changes your life
I got hypnotized in this episode Marissa
hypnotizes me to completely end my sugar
cravings and you're gonna see it happen
and you're gonna find out if it works so
stick around
[Music]
Marissa
I've been trying to figure something out
I've been trying to figure out if we get
to choose our beliefs
and I actually wrote about this in my
book recently and I I feel like you're
the person to ask this question because
I know that our lives are governed by
these beliefs that we have about the
world ourselves and everything in
between but can we choose them I think
so you know when I was here last time
you asked me about my childhood which I
don't talk about a lot it wasn't awful
but it also wasn't amazing but the
beliefs I had then
so totally different to the beliefs I
have now because I chose to give myself
better beliefs because you know you make
your beliefs and then you'll believe
turn right around and make you and then
confirmation bias means you look for
proof of what you have chosen to believe
and you'll find it so if you say oh I
hate cats they're vicious things that
scratch you they're really Aloo for I
don't like dogs they're Barker yappy
horrible things then if you believe that
about a dog and you meet a dog you'll
feel so anxious that that will become
true but if you say oh I love dogs
they're the most loyal gorgeous loving
things then you'll have a different
energy around them
so you should choose your beliefs you
should constantly upgrade update
question nobody where did I get that
from is that true who told me that
belief and even if it's true for them
does it have to be true for me you know
I see a lot of women who say things like
well you know if you're really famous
and Rich you'll never find a guy because
a hundred years ago that was probably
true men didn't go for Rich successful
women because they wanted them at home
but it's not true now so your
grandmother's belief is not your belief
I love my daughter's generation who
don't do body shaming or fat shaming and
have a whole different language which I
think is so refreshing
so you can always choose your beliefs
and you really should constantly check
why do I even believe that is it even
true because so often it's not true at
all it's just something you've been
taught or you've just gone along with it
anyway so in the case of cats then you
know I like all animals but cats I do
think you know the way you describe them
they're a little bit scratchy yeah
sometimes a little bit you know Annoying
not as loving as dogs maybe I'm gonna
annoy a lot of cat people here
um
if that is my belief
if I say to myself okay no cat's a
wonderful they're lovely you know
they're fantastic they don't scratch Etc
I feel like I'm just lying to myself and
I you know this is the case with
self-belief as well I could I could say
that yeah I'm amazing and attractive and
all these things but
in my subconscious mind
after getting I don't know bullied at
seven years old by a kid that called me
fat and whatever else
am I just not lying to myself well I
think you should lie to yourself I think
you should lie to yourself I think you
should lie cheat and steal every day of
your life lie to your mind cheat fear
and steal back the confidence you were
born with so it's imagine you're going
for an exam you go I'm gonna fail it I'm
gonna mess it up I've got a terrible
memory I know when I read that paper my
mind's gonna go blank and I'm going to
blow it
so that's a belief but you could also
say I've got a great memory everything I
studied for this exam is in my head when
I read the paper
the questions are going to come up and
I'm going to remember the answers and
I'm super chilled at exams I'm cool calm
collected I'm going to ace this exam so
if you repeat that over and over again
you see the subconscious doesn't think
it just feels and if you say I'm nervous
I'm so nervous and you the subconscious
feels that then when you're nervous the
Mind shuts down all the blood rushes to
your heart and your mind empties it's
like if you're crossing a road in a
and I don't think should I go left right
forwards back would you just move
because in fear you don't think you move
so when you're scared your mind empties
I remember years ago I was coming home
and this guy was following me and I knew
he was following I knew I had minutes to
get in my door and I couldn't get the
key and I couldn't remember which I did
I'm like oh my God I have all the times
to forget how this key works I lived it
for five years but I was so scared I
couldn't remember how to open my door at
all because when you're scared your
brain empties
so if you go into an exam going I'm
scared I'm nervous You Won't Do Well if
you say
I got a great memory I love exams I'm
excited about this exam I'm so excited
I'm going to be assessed I'm going to do
really well or I'm going to this
assessment I'm going to ace it this
person is going to love me and see that
I'm so smart and my answers will show
them that I know I'm talking about the
mind doesn't go oh come on that silly
the Mind goes okay
whatever you say
you make it real your mind's job is to
make your thoughts real the subconscious
doesn't think it only feels and if your
mind's job is to make your thoughts real
in your job is to think better thoughts
all the time so imagine you're going to
have a needle stuck in your arm
you go oh that's going to hurt and
that's going to be so pain but you could
I always read my phone and if you cough
just as a needle goes in it confuses
your mind and you don't feel it is that
lying or is it just taking your mind
somewhere else
that's the because I I think if I can
choose my beliefs then I can unchoose
beliefs but I couldn't do it again a
single belief I have now that I could
genuinely unchoose I can see it yes but
I think I'd still believe it yeah but
the thing with the mind is there's a
couple of rules of the Mind One is let
me give you a couple that will help you
every thought you think is a blueprint
that your mind and body work to make
real every thought you think has a
physical reaction and indeed an
emotional response and here's another
one the Mind learns by repetition so
when you think a thought a lot over and
over again it becomes real if even if
it's not real so if you think a thought
my neighbor's driving me crazy they're
so noisy I can never sleep I can hear
their television they're getting on my
nerves
it'll become your reality if you say
it's a little bit irritating but I can
put my headphones on I can tune out then
you'll have a different reaction to the
same event you know we don't have to
change events we have to change how we
think about the events it's like saying
oh this commute to work is killing me
you know this this being on this freeway
is driving me crazy but someone else
will go wow I'd love to be on you've got
a car and you're going to a job and
you're getting paid that's my fantasy
dream come true
don't have to change a thing you have to
change how you think about the thing so
that is changing your beliefs and the
belief is really just the thought you
think a lot so you're born as a blank
slate where did you get those thoughts
from who gave them to you so the beliefs
you think you can't change
where do they come from let's do they
know where do the beliefs you think you
can't change come from
so I think one of the recurring beliefs
I've had about myself yes which I think
goes back a long as long as I can
remember to be honest is that I am
fundamentally unorganized unorganized
okay we'll be surprised to hear that
because I'm very I'd say productive my
output is high but the organization of
my stuff even if you looked in my bag it
would be like a jumble sale my house as
well if I didn't have a cleaner I think
it would be you know it'll be like a
bomb had gone off in there I heard you
saying actually on a podcast that when
you go your hotel room is very messy and
it upsets you but not enough to make you
change it you've been listening
no you're right I think there's there's
a habit or something that I've built
into myself where I think I've told
myself it's faster to be messy yeah and
but then the the dissonance or the the
issue that I take with it is that's not
who I want to be I want to be a messy
person I want to be someone who comes
into the hotel room goes into their
suitcase and hangs everything up so that
tomorrow is easier what happens is I
dive into the suitcase pull my gym
equipment out and run to the gym and
it's something I want to change because
it's almost like this concession in my
life where I've gone well that's just
who I am I'm just a messy person and I
think we'll label ourselves and of
course when you do that now you're
making it really say no I can't spell
but my dad couldn't spell and now it's
genetic so every time you say I'm just a
messy person the strongest force in you
and everyone in the world is you must
act in a way that utterly matches up
with how you have chosen to Define you
so if you start by changing that and
saying I love being organized it gives
me such joy to be all I love putting So
when you say it say it say it
it will start to change so if the last
three weeks have been staying in a place
with an amazing gym and I started to a
love working out with really really
heavy weights because you know I got run
over and I started to get muscle
weightage in my leg I was going I love
heavy heavy weights I love it and I was
really a Pilates yoga person but for the
last three weeks I get up and I'm in the
gym at half seven and go I love heavy
weights and I I didn't like it before
but I just I decided to say it over and
over again because when you say State
and affirm something your mind must make
it real so all you have to do really is
to start saying a lot I love being
organized it gives me immense joy to put
stuff away I love it when everything's
in its place and I'm in a hotel and sure
I run when I come back I put my gym kit
in a particular place
and I love that feeling of being super
organized and very quickly it will start
to change because you're thinking a
thought that your mind has no choice but
to make real
but it's also true you know you think a
thought but and you your mind can't help
it it has to make you know we do that we
did that thing with a lemon didn't we
where you think you're eating a lemon we
ever done that what's that what's that
well let's do it now so put your hand in
front of your mouth yeah
imagine you're holding half of a great
big fat juicy lemon close your eyes and
just put that lemon right up to your
nose
and breathe in that amazing lemon smell
because nothing really smells quite like
a lemon
now squeeze that lemon so hard so that
lemon drops pucker onto the surface
stick out your tongue
lick off the lemon
open your mouth really wide and shove
that entire lemon into your mouth and I
want you to start sucking and biting and
chewing all the flesh literally just
bite into that lemon until the lemon
drops burst onto your tongue and your
taste buds pucker and swell as you start
to chew that lemon suck that lemon swirl
that lemon all around your mouth keep
eating the lemon suck it chew it swirl
it around
and then open your eyes
did you start pumping out saliva yes I
did and so here's a question was there a
lemon no there was no lemon that's true
there was no lemon you could also say
yes which is also true they're both true
no there wasn't but yes there actually
was where was it where was the lemon
that was making you make saliva in my
head in your head yeah it wasn't
anywhere else it was in your head just
do another one put your own right arm
out towards me and just swing your arm
behind you as far as it will go and have
a look at where it's going just look
behind you to notice where it is bring
it back I think you went up to like the
third book on that bookshelf I want you
to imagine close your eyes and tell your
mind my arm's gonna go a third further
I'm now like a bendy Barbie and Ken doll
my arm is so flexible it's going first I
want you to imagine all the muscles in
your right arm becoming super flexible
like cooked pasta
open your eyes
put your arm out and say to your arm
you're going a third further now you're
like a pretzel you're super flexible go
a third further swing your arm back and
just watch as it goes a third further
now look at how far it's gone
um you are only up to the third book
before so what happened then
um I
just believed my arm was going to go
further and it did yeah and you see and
for men I get men who say you know I I
can't please my wife I can't get an
erection I can't keep it going and and
she's going to leave me and if I tell
them other things you know you're a
great lover you can maintain an erection
for 20 minutes or 10 minutes or the
average is about four and a half minutes
that starts to happen they don't do
anything else they said listen to
recording that says you have longer
erections you can have a great sex life
you can wait until your partner orgasms
and it all becomes true because every
time they say but I can't do it it's all
over in a minute I can't please her or
him
they actually make that real but when
you just change a thought you know
there's a song called Love Changes
Everything by climbie Fisher but
actually thoughts change everything
when you think of thought it's such a
game changer
erections yes
it's so interesting because in my
friendship group with my male friends
we've spoken about
sex life libido
erections a lot yeah
um we've all struggled in different ways
at different times with this and it it's
one of the areas in life where it's so
clear to me that thoughts are the
problem and the solution yeah because
again if a man thinks about sex looks at
pictures looks at a movie and gets
aroused you get a very physical reaction
straight away even if there's no one in
the room with you so that's a classic
example of thinking a thought about
being aroused turned on feeling sexually
attracted and your body makes it real
even there's no one there and it can be
at a wedding coming event it can be
highly embarrassing for Guyton to get an
erection in the wrong place but if you
think a thought
I'm turned on here the body means it
does it for women too but it's not so
obvious for us we can kind of hide it
but yes it's a thought I can't do it I
can I'm gonna fail I'm going to succeed
do you work with people often that have
sexual dysfunction all the time is it
becoming more popular or more prevalent
in your view
I think people are more able to talk
about a lot of women countries I can't
orgasm I'm I can't orgasm at all I don't
know what to do all my friends having
massive orgasms but me the more I try
the harder it is
I don't think that's true apparently our
grandmother's had more sex than us but I
think now we have all this pressure we
watch porn we watch other people talking
about their amazing sex we think oh I'm
not like that but it's very easy to make
your body super orgasmic but I think
before we didn't talk about that my
grandmother would have never talked
about
orgasms or having a design a vagina or a
Brazilian even know what that was so
we're in a different generation now
where
you know every year there's another way
to hate your body even your genitals
have got to be perfect now and I think
it's so much pressure for people I've
got to look like a porn star have sex
like a porn star and porn really damages
so many people because it's such an
impossible expectation to live up to
seems that pressure as it relates to sex
it's the enemy yeah of course especially
for I can only speak from a guy's
perspective because that's what I've
ever been but if there's ever pressure
in the bedroom there is zero chance on
getting an erection of course because
comparison is a thief of joy
and we're so busy comparing ourselves to
porn stars and someone who looks like
the Kardashians who has a perfect body
and everything's perfect it's not really
like that have you ever worked with men
that have um sexual dysfunction issues
yeah a lot of them with premature
ejaculation erectile dysfunction all of
it I've got a friend who I would say if
it was me okay because I feel like I I
like to be honest everyone's got a
friend it sounds like I'm talking about
something like talking about myself but
there's a couple of things I'll talk
about from my own perspective in the
sexual department but
um my friend was in a relationship he
was in the relationship for a couple of
years and then halfway through the
relationship
he could no longer keep an erection and
he was talking to me a lot about it and
then he ended up ending the relationship
because he had convinced himself it was
impossible to change that and in fact I
know a lot of guys that struggle with
this and there was a point where I was
one of them where I just seemed to get
this thought in my head
about sex
and I struggled to
to keep an erection but also just to
keep myself hmm
to want sex yeah
there's gonna be people listening to
this right now that are in that
situation where something has just
changed every time they go to bed it's
just this high pressure situation yeah
um they they can't get an erection
therefore they're avoidant of having sex
what do you say to those people
you know it's really interesting because
we we want intimacy we think I want to
fall in love with someone that finishes
my sentences that knows when I'm hungry
that knows I'm having a bad day that
just knows me inside out and loves my
very soul
which is wonderful but what great sex
requires this mystery what eroticism
requires it's not intimacy at all so in
the beginning even for the first it's
all new you don't know what they're
going to do how they're going to do it
it's all very exciting it's all new and
so for men especially you know it's
great maybe for the first two years and
then it's like oh like one of my clients
said every time my husband comes to bed
with just his pajama top on and they
want sex but it's so unromantic I mean
he just doesn't bother to put the pajama
bottoms on it's like oh God is that his
idea of foreplay I mean how many people
say you know it's always every Saturday
morning before we go and do the food job
and it's so predictable
many people have affairs not because
they don't love their partner but
because they're missing out so you have
intimacy which is like the love being in
love and knowing each other and loving
each other and you know not caring if
your wife's got her period or your
husband's got a bit of bad breath or
their tired or they've got a cold you
just love them anyway but then you have
eroticism which is amazing sex great sex
neuroticism really likes mystery
suspense bit of edginess bit of
naughtiness bit of the unknown and they
don't go together they really don't go
together at all but there is one thing
that makes them go to and that's called
fantasy there's a bridge that links
eroticism
to intimacy into eroticism and it's
called fantasy well I think oh isn't
that being unfaithful to my partner sure
I shouldn't fantasize but
actually Fifty Shades of Gray which was
not a great book at all but it taught
people a lot about oh I can fantasize I
can read this book and I can pretend I'm
Anastasia with Mr Gray
and it that perfected so well because it
allowed people to fantasize and so if
you have a relationship of 30 years I
mean I'm great friends with John and
Missy but to be married for 35 years
there are a couple that created a life
book they live in Hawaii but they talk a
lot about how they have a very erotic
sex life after 35 years it's like red
hot but they understand it's all about
but a mystery bit of drama bit of
suspense I'm very lucky that my husband
I travel all over the world so we never
have all Saturday night Saturday
mornings have sex then go to Sainsbury's
that's just not in our agenda so we
always have a bit of newness going on
but for men even if you love your
partner so much when it becomes
predictable
it's like
the throw goes you know that song about
where's the throgon I've lost the thrill
the thrill isn't there so you have to
put a bit of work back into making your
sex life thrilling and moving it away
and so it's it's hard when you love
someone but you know everything about
them and they about you and it's like
well there's no newness here obviously
you know I go on holiday we have great
sex why is that well you're not thinking
about the laundry or anything else you
can just really let go and you're in a
different place and you can be someone
else
like you often hear about people going
on holiday like girls do Ibiza and going
wild and then they would never be like
that at home because it gives you a
chance to be someone else
so sometimes
in your sex life you have to take that
chance and use drama mystery suspense
edginess just like I was telling one of
my clients I went home I went home and
said to my husband dominate me so what
shall I do she went well dominate me
said yeah but watch as well that's the
point don't ask me what how can you
dominate me if I have to tell you what
to do I want to feel overpowered by your
maleness when you say well what shall I
do you're more like a girl and a boy and
I don't like that because of course
Opposites Attract especially in sex even
if we're a same-sex relationships
Opposites attract
and that's very exciting we're building
together a long time they try to make
their partner like them
and they forget that Opposites Attract
so if you keep trying to make your
partner like you
and they can try to make you like them
then you haven't got the Opposites
attracting anymore and then it kind of
disappears and the other thing that
people do a lot I mean My grandmother
used to call her husband dad or daddy
and that was a bit weird but that was
maybe her it wasn't a sexual thing she
said come on dad get out of the way and
what do you want for tea dad and they
they had no sex at all she thought there
was the most disgusting thing in the
world but the minute
your partner becomes mummy or daddy and
many women and the best of attention say
things like have you taken your vitamins
today
you know where a code's going to get
cold did you pay the bill I knew you
wouldn't do that you're becoming either
critical mommy or loving mummy
and then we have the opposite some men
are very controlling so you can't have
that you're not going to have that they
become controlling Daddy and the minute
your partner is in any way mummy or
daddy you can't have sex with them
because who wants to have sex with their
parents that's really weird and many
people don't realize how as they say in
a long relationship they take on the
role of critical parent blaming parent
judging parents
and then you have no desire left so
you've got to be very careful not to let
that happen and especially when you have
children and then you say mommy can you
get Andy a um
tissue Daddy can you get Susie her gym
bag and even though you don't mean it
you're now saying mommy daddy people do
that with their pets even Daddy get um
take Toby for a walk or mummy take and
it's like it really messes up your sex
life to call your partner mommy or daddy
so interesting it is isn't it even when
you were saying then about the lady that
came home and said to her partner
dominate me and he went how no he said
what shall I do yeah which is like it's
it's the antithesis of domination but it
kind of speaks to
10 years of him just trying to please
her you know yeah but also there is bad
Community she should have said hey you
know what you do you do the sandwich you
go hey you know we've been together for
seven or eight years and we're great but
you know I've got this thing I would
love you to dominate me like this I'd
love you to pretend to be the postman or
the gardener or I'd love you to pretend
to be someone it would really excite me
if you could do that because then it
would just be exciting and then they go
oh okay I get it I've got to pretend to
be the postman or the gardener or
and I was a lot of women who couldn't
conceive and this is where I learned
this from so many of my clients couldn't
conceive because their husband didn't
have enough sperm but when men have sex
with a stranger they triple their sperm
outtake and when women have sex with a
stranger their cervix to suck up the
sperm so when I realized it's a great
book called sperm Wars it tells you all
look I thought okay so I wrote them like
I said okay this is what you've got to
do you've got to go home
pretend you're I don't know when I asked
you would ask and your husband but you
mustn't speak because that's going to
ruin it and then have sex but make have
some kind of go to a hotel of course the
men love it has to talk no no talking
just act out this fantasy because he
will triple his sperm outtake your
cervix will tilt and it's like it's like
IUI it's like um you have more sperm and
so many might have said well I got
pregnant you know I've tried all this
over going up the road to the whole day
and pretended he was like the plumber or
anything at all
and that word we got pregnant like that
because he made so much more sperm and
so isn't that interesting that wasn't
about fantasy it was about how can you
get more sperm how can you become more
fertile what can you do and these were
just silly little things that help men
and women who were trying really hard
over had a low sperm count get pregnant
why does that happen why does the sperm
count triple in the cervix tilt well
let's imagine you know that we're in a
tribe and there's some people there
and nature the human species must go on
so for men when they impregnate the same
person over and over again they've made
her fragment many times but a new person
if you get a new person pregnant
straight away that's how the human race
continues you know one of my friends was
telling me this story about in New
Zealand with the Rams and he said you
know you would buy the male Rams and
you'd drive them to the field and they
could smell the film as they started
ramming the door that's why they called
Rams and when you finally get there you
open the gate and they charge out they
have sex with every female when they
come back they've lost half their body
weight in a really bad way but they have
to have sex with every single female
and every you
so it's just an evolution rate of making
sure the species goes on so what does
that say about monogamy
but this is not nature doesn't care but
nature cares about this species
continuing nature doesn't care about
monogamy that its role is to make sure
we continue but yes of course we want to
be monogamous so what do you do we use
that very thing if if being with someone
new excites me and gets me going why
can't I pretend my partner's someone new
and of course you can you can do all
kinds of great things you can introduce
newness don't always have sex in the
same place at the same time it's a
little tiny bit of effort but do
something to make it new and exciting so
you would recommend spending time apart
as well yes I mean I've been with my
husband for
15 years we've only spent 11 days apart
and we work together so you know that
thing about living over the shop so we
work together we're together all the
time but we have a great sex life
because we both understand what makes it
tick which isn't necessarily being a
part but yeah being a part's great too
because you can't wait to come back to
that person a lot of people will listen
to all of this and think God I'd love
I'd love to do that I want him to turn
me into a maid and tie me up and
surprise me or whatever but
if I even mention this to him he would
look at me like I've got you know a tail
or look at me like I was weird well part
of having a great relationship is doing
for the other so I if I said to my
husband I'm not hungry so we're not
eating I'm not tired so we're not going
to bed I'm not cold so the heating's not
coming on he'd look at me like I was mad
because part of that is I'm not really
hungry but you want to go out for dinner
we'll go I don't really want to go to
this event or I don't want to watch go
to a football match but it's important
to you so I will go because in a
relationship if you do for each as if
your partner says
I would love you to put a little Maids
out and run around with the dust it
would be so amazing I don't want to do
that isn't that drug do you think well
maybe I could just try it once if I
don't like it and never have to do it
again maybe it would be red hot it's not
about being objectified
so if you love someone
and assuming their fantasy isn't
dangerous or painful or super weird why
not just see if you can do it and then
then you can say hey if I do that you
can do this because it's trading all the
time and there's nothing wrong with that
that's the same thing my house if I'm
tired my husband will say I'm going to
make you something to eat or I'm going
to drive it I'm going to do that for you
because he loves me and I'm the same
with him but people think oh I shouldn't
why should I have sex I'm tired why
should I do that and the worst thing I
don't want sex anymore so you can never
have sex again either which is very
weird because why would you condemn your
partner to no sex ever just because you
don't want to have sex and imagine if
it's the other way around because isn't
a relationship doing for each other even
if it's not really your thing
I think this is fascinating I looked at
the back end of our YouTube channel and
it says that since this channel started
69.9 percent of you that watch it
frequently haven't yet hit the Subscribe
button so I have a favor to ask you if
you've ever watched this Channel and
enjoyed the content if you're enjoying
this episode right now please can I ask
a small favor please hit the Subscribe
button helps this channel more than I
can explain and I promise if you do that
to return the favor we will make the
show better and better and better and
better and better that's the promise I'm
willing to make you if you hit the
Subscribe button do we have a deal
to ask on this because I'm just thinking
about all the conversations I've had
with my friends recently about sex and
their relationships and I've got another
friend who is in in a relationship it's
become a sexless relationship he's
staying with her I think because
because she's really nice but why has it
become sexless
um
that's a good question that I wouldn't
know and without asking him but I'll
tell you what he's he's told me he's
told me how much he wants to have sex
with other people
and he actually described it as like a
Temptation that he just he is like as if
he's possessed he says every five
minutes someone will walk past and I
think about having sex with them like
he's absolutely obsessed with it but not
with her not with her
um she wants to settle down because
she's at an agent's phase of life where
she feels that she kind of needs to
hurry up that's what these are just
words that I'm repeating that he's just
told me and so he feels a bit stuck
where he's got this partner who wants to
settle down he clearly doesn't want to
settle down and he's thinking about
having sex with everyone else and he's
not having sex with her and that's how
he's escaping he probably doesn't want
to settle down have children but feels
he should sounds like he wants to be
become a successful and now he's
thinking about having sex that's his way
out you know oh he can't say to her look
you know I love you but I'm not ready
for that that five years down the line
for me so his mind is doing it he thinks
he wants to have sex with everyone but
her and his mind because of his time
thing because his mind is saying you're
not ready you're not ready you know
often we have dreams that say oh I'm not
ready or wow I thought I wanted to do
this but my dream said oh no you don't
want to do that at all but the desire
he's with other people is his body
saying you are not ready to be with her
you'll be with anyone else but her and
you should really just tell her the
truth and say look
I'm not at that stage you're at I'm I'm
just not ready for that yet because you
see when the you can't open your mouth
and say I'm not ready or I'm not
comfortable I'm not happy the body goes
I'll do it I'll do it for you and I see
that with all my clients not just
sexually when you can't say
one of my clients told me years ago that
he got fired from his job and he
couldn't tell his wife that every day
picked up his briefcase and went and sat
in the park and then he got really sick
and then she said you're so sick you
can't go you'll have to resign he went
okay
and he never had to tell her that he'd
lost his job because the body made him
so ill he would have lost his job anyway
so you know I love this expression the
feeling that cannot find his expression
in tears will make other organs weep and
so he's got a feeling that he can't
express and when you can't open your
mouth and go
I don't want to do that the body said I
do it for you and it finds really
peculiar obscure often really unhelpful
ways of doing it for us
how does he know though that
it's a case of him not being ready or
even in my case when I was 24 25 years
old I just self-sabotage any sign of
commitment so let's talk about that so
let's go back to your 24 years old oh
for my entire I mean it starts at 14. so
it's a 40. yeah 14. you're 24 and you
fancy people and you're a very good
looking guy and you've obviously had
some relationships tell me about the
self-sabotage
it started with Jasmine
Jasmine was with a guy called I probably
shouldn't name him but I'll call him
John
Jasmine and John Jasmine and children
they were in a relationship I really
fancy Jasmine she's gonna hear this but
she knows already fancied her for about
three years pursued her doggedly from
like 14 till 17.
really 18 and there was a day where like
Jasmine gave me a chance finally she was
in a relationship with this guy called
John
um and on that day
I got terrified and I
kind of remember persuading her out of
it even though I'd pursued her for years
and then as I look through my early sort
of twenties the same sort of recurring
Behavior pattern showed up where I would
any sign of commitment I would come up
with a reason why I couldn't commit sure
I'm busy I need to become a millionaire
this will get in the way of my work so
what you were doing was the oldest trick
in the book you pursued Jazz when she
wasn't available she was with someone
else when she became available you
thought oh no because now she could
reject you now she could say when she
was with someone else it was a dream I'd
love to get that girl wouldn't you have
the chance it's like oh
she could find out I'm not worthy she
could find I'm not good enough sorry I
can give you context as to how it felt
the idea of commitment felt like prison
of course yeah you've said that before
and so of course if your end goal is
commitment is prison
being stuck with one person is prison
your mind says I've got to get you out
of this so it's all fine to have flings
but the minute commitment comes up you
back out because that's going to jail
you don't want to do that so that's
really normal when you say things like
oh I'm going to be tied down I'm nailed
down oh that's it now no more fun and
people say things like you two are one
now and
may all your promise be little ones and
and sometimes we don't like that it's
like oh I don't like that idea and all
the vows about to love honor and obey to
forsake all others we think do I really
want that but you were adamant that you
didn't want that that a relationship was
prison so when you tell your mind I
don't want it
the Mind must get you out of if you say
oh god I've got to give that speech I
don't want to do it I want to do it I
want to do it don't be surprised on The
Daily speech you wake up with chronic
diarrhea a terrible cold and migraine in
your mind because she said you didn't
want to go
and I'm so cool I got you out of it
because the mind listens every thought
you think it listens to it's like a
genie your wish is it come answer your
wishes I don't want to be in prison of
commitment I'm happy to date but when it
gets a little bit serious the Mind goes
let me get you out of this
and we don't do it in logical ways you
know self-sabotage procrastination and
nothing more than the fear of either not
being enough or not wanting to go where
you think you're going you know there
are people who apply for a job get it
and they never turn off on the first day
or think God I work that and I don't
want to I thought I wanted this I don't
want it I thought I wanted that person I
actually don't want them
and so for you the thought that a
relationship is prison
so powerful that it would make every
relationship unravel including Jasmine
so now let's go back to your friend
yeah so how does he know that
it's not just some like I don't know
unresolved traumatic issue that's
stopping him and being avoidant of
committing to that individual or if that
individual is not right and I think it's
the the case with like jobs and
relationships and everything in our life
how do we know that it's not just some
trauma response that we're having or if
the thing we're avoiding or rejecting is
actually not right for us
when you think okay my life without this
person would it be better or worse so
rather if I have an argument with my
husband we don't argue a lot but I
always imagine my life without him and
it's so much worse in my life with him
occasionally annoys me he's got some he
can put get a tea bag and have it
everything is a kitchen in like three
minutes flowers say wow how do you do
that I just don't understand how you can
do that
but you have to pick your battles in a
relationship and when he really annoys
me I just think okay imagine if he
wasn't here and that I thought oh no I
wouldn't like that maybe not here for a
couple of hours but forever so you know
because of how you feel but you see
you know we're all taught this you know
you found your other half but you're not
a half you're a whole you can't find
another half to complete you because
you're not half a person but a lot of us
are taught you know you're going to find
the handsome prince it's going to live
happily ever after well that that isn't
true there's never one person ever that
could complete you or meet or your needs
and so you have to be a realistic in a
relationship you have to put your needs
into three parts okay I've got a need
my husband must always tell me where he
is he must call me he must tell me when
he's if it's two in the morning I don't
know where he is I don't like that he
must be honest honesty is a
non-negotiable need for me
so that's a need that has to be met need
for tidiness
is that really important I can do it
myself
you know by the time I have an argument
with him about the Tea Bag I've already
put it in the bin and put a bit of
bleach on the kitchen counter and it's
all done so the second lot of needs you
might have to meet those needs the need
to have a tidy kitchen the need to have
I don't know organic groceries delivered
maybe you can do it as soon as you've
got to pick your battles and the third
set of needs you just got to give those
up some needs are just not important
enough to fight about now my daughter is
an artist
and artists are very messy and if you go
look at the mess and go what mess I
can't even see it so with my daughter
the need to her to have a tidy bedroom I
learned to shut the door don't even go
in there if I go and they go well she's
happy do I need to have a happy daughter
or a tidy daughter's bedroom a happy
daughter was actually more important so
some needs you must have your partner
meet some you've got him even some just
give them away it's really not not worth
arguing about
you reminded me when you talked there
about
thinking about meeting Prince Charming
and Perfection I went into a Bookshop
the other day
um as I sometimes do just for
inspiration you know and I bumped into a
lady who recognized me
um actually took a photo of her because
the conversation really stayed with me
it's not it's not often that I take a
photo from with someone else I say
please can I have a fight with you just
so I remember this conversation and what
she said to me in that conversation was
reminiscent of many other conversations
I've had she was a a woman she's just
over the age of 30. I think she was 32
31.
and she was actually in that book shop
looking for a book that would help her
solve her romantic and relationship
issues she said to me which is a message
I've had before from close friends of
mine I'm over 30 now I'm looking for a
guy I've never been in a relationship
I've been working very very very hard
and she says she's excelling in her
career people have told me to that I
just need to go to the gym and work out
and I've tried that
um and I still can't find this person
and the other sentence I remember she
said I don't want to settle and I've got
people close to me in my life many
people that have are in almost identical
situation so much so that I sent that
photo with her to those people and said
I've just met you in a Bookshop and it
helped me to actually understand them
better because to know that there's many
many people that are in that situation
then they've got this kind of societal
clock yeah that's saying you better do
it quickly yeah
what would you have said to her to help
her so I just said first of all what are
you doing people said I'm looking for
love okay that's great where are you
looking where are you going they go well
I go to yoga any men there not really oh
you reminded me of something she said
she said I've tried dating apps those
don't work people tell me to meet people
in public but how'd you do that yeah so
people tell me they're looking for love
all the time I'm looking for love where
are you looking describe your weekend I
went to yoga anyone in a yoga class not
really and then I went to my friend's
house and then I went to a book reading
for any man there not really and then I
went out with all my girlfriends we all
looked the same we all went to the same
bar a lot of competition so actually
you're not looking for love at all
because you're going to places where men
aren't
and then men say I'm looking for love
where are you going I mean the weight
were many women there they're all in the
yoga class so if you really want to find
love you've got to be proactive first of
all sit down and think what kind of
person do you want I mean what qualities
do they have what are you looking for
you know normally say I'm I'm looking to
buy a house but I've never I've never go
to an estate agent and look at the
brochures I just think the house will
turn up I'm looking for a job I'm
actually going to yoga I'm going to I'm
not going for any interviews we'd say
well you're not really looking for a job
are you when I look for a house I've got
brochures coming in I'm going to look at
I'm going to look at houses till I find
the right one so if you want love sit
down and think about what you want make
a list don't return to six pack and
gorgeous or ten I think of the qualities
what is this person like and then
decide what is that person looking for
you might have to up your game a bit and
then think about where is this person
they're not in yoga but they're
somewhere and once you've decided that
you're worth love that's the the most
important bit and you can put yourself
around people you'll find love easily
but we're so busy trying to
change ourselves so you have to take
some time because the only thing you
need to do to find love is first of all
every day so I'm worthy of love I am
worthy of being loved I deserve to be
deeply loved and I am worth it and if
you think oh when I say that I feel
really stupid then say it more until you
don't feel stupid to think no actually
it's sinking in now so I'm putting
lotion on my skin it is going in it is
having an impact so say it state it
affirm it a lot I deserve love I'm
worthy of Love who couldn't love me I'm
deserving of love and then
when you've got that part right and you
know that if you don't think
I hope when I go on a date I'm good
enough for them well what about thinking
are they good enough for you so you've
got to
reframe that don't keep saying I got to
make myself I've got to chase love
pursue love get in shape to find love be
perfect to find love you've got to find
love just by being you so work on
knowing you're worth it that's some 80
of your success will come down to having
an unworth IT mindset think of the
person who think of where they are and
then get out of the yoga and go to the
weight room if you're a girl if you're a
guy get out of the weight and go to the
yoga put yourself around the people you
want to be with and you'll end up with
them she did say a line to me which I
just remembered which is I've started to
think that there's something wrong with
me yeah and it's there is a clear
pattern in the people who are in that
situation that I know that have started
to engage in vocal negative self yeah
and self-disparagement and apps of
course there's so much like going to a
Chinese restaurant with a menu that's 20
people think oh I don't even know what
to have now there's so much variety I've
I've now I've got to page 20 I forgotten
what was on page one if you go to a
restaurant with a little man you think
okay I'm gonna have that so apps with
masses of variety lots of people I mean
they show you a good thing how many
people are looking for love just like
you so you're not weird or a freak
apps are good to show you wow all these
people good looking people are looking
for love
but maybe come away from the apps and
and start to talk to people you know
talk to people
thinking as you're talking about dating
apps I've never been a prolific dating
app person because I've been busy but
also I'd never had success on them until
people knew who I was sort of in a
public capacity and then you can't I
can't use them anyway so but going back
10 years I do remember using dating apps
swiping through and you'd see like
really beautiful people and like oh I
want that one you'd swipe right on them
and then the ones that would swipe left
and you were just you know they were
just not the ones you were looking for
yeah and because you understand the
value of anything by the context in
which you see it by seeing
50 Beautiful People yeah but then
getting the ones that are less than even
if there was less than people it's not
not not waste not a nice way to describe
them the ones you didn't deserve yeah
um
are perfectly okay because you've seen
them in a context where you've seen
supermodels yeah you're never going to
Value them yeah of course and also you
know I was thinking about
people that are going on those dates
that are searching for Mr Right or Mrs
Right
are we less valuable when when we're in
search of something yeah definitely
that's the problem right well it's it's
one thing is to say Hey you know I'm
I've got a great life and I've decided
you know I'm ready to be with someone
amazing I want to share my life with
someone who wants to share that I'm
quite I'm okay if I don't find them
I got a great life but I'm I'm kind of
open to finding the right person now is
rather different to needy I need someone
to complete me I don't want to be on my
own I hate being alone I I need to find
my mate my partner so you almost need to
be at a level where you you're happy and
you've got a great life but you want to
share it rather than I'm incomplete
without that person there's something
wrong with me people just say to me why
are you not married I'd say I don't know
just lucky I guess because I hated the
option of what's wrong with this I
always have that pattern I don't know I
guess I'm just very lucky from the age
of 20 to 25 yes everyone I pursued
romantically once I'd even got past the
commitment issues
didn't want me
and I always reflect on it and go
when I really wanted someone there must
have been something I was doing yeah
they knew that you would jump them they
they knew that you had a commitment fear
that sort of probably came out of your
poor so of course they jumped you before
you dumped them because your behavior
and some of the things you did or said
or even didn't would have let them know
that you had a commitment fear and so
they just got out before you did even
they wouldn't they weren't even I got
rejected a lot in that face from like
2025 and I reflect on it and go how come
those five girls that I pursued I really
wanted that like you know I'd start
listening to Adele and think of them
like you know went into the frenzy all
of them
rejected me
if it wasn't it was all of them they all
picked up something from you because it
was one you go oh well it was them yeah
because I thought I've had five wives a
lot of disappointment have they had five
husbands no
well then it was you I was talking to a
client I've had five wives they all
disappointed me I said well you were the
disappointment because they couldn't all
disappoint you you must have wanted
Perfection which he did and you can only
ask for Perfection if you're offering
Perfection which none of us can offer
only conclusion from that chapter in my
life was there must be like a thousand
micro Expressions that these people are
picking up on that actually indicating
that I'm low value yeah and I do you
know I couldn't fake it I read all the
books about you know I read this book in
this matchmaking book and this book
called The Game the mystery method I
watched all the documentaries and the
only reason it changed in my life was
when my actual opinion of myself changed
yeah of course because you didn't value
yourself and you know if you have this
belief I'm not good enough and you fake
it people pick it up they know
instinctively they can't help it because
it's at a level Beyond communication
where you have a low sense of worth
people pick it up and when you have a
high sense they pick it up too but when
you fake it you're still faking it so
that's why you've got to get to that
level of hey I'm so great when I was in
I was in Zimbabwe just before I met John
and I was they put me in a honeymoon
suite
and it was an amazing place they could
say oh this is so sad you haven't got a
husband they don't understand that why
have you got a husband this is not
normal and I thought you know I'm so
happy and I thought I'm re as a second
time in a month I was also teaching in
comedy but being a honeymoon suite again
that really was the best room in the
house and it was a big honeymoon so I
thought well you know what I love being
in here I didn't think oh this is so sad
and so the second I was at honeymoon I
was thinking you know what if this is as
good as it ever gets I'm on my own in
this amazing place in Zimbabwe in this
amazing with two baths outside and two
showers and two of everything I'm okay
I'm really happy and I was married 10
months I didn't even know John well I
knew him but we weren't dating because
you have to get to that level of
thinking
yeah I came home I knew John our kids
went to the same school I came home from
Africa in September met him in October
we were married the following August but
I got to that level where I was so happy
being just being by myself
the I didn't chase him or think oh my
God I need this it was just like oh here
you are and how do you know you and
you're a great guy and it all worked out
perfectly but you have to get away from
the neediness or I'm running away from
it avoiding it or desperately looking
for in your case looking for thinking
it's a prison you have to be at a level
of I'm ready but I'm happy anyway and
then from 25 to 30 the next five years
the thing that changed in my life was I
became
um what other people would call
successful she had business success now
it's funny because someone will look at
that and go okay well for the next five
years from 25 to 30 you had money so it
attracted people whatever right yeah but
I know that that's not the full story I
know that I think the success
changed my beliefs about myself of
course it did I just think I stood
differently and I of course you did and
you had a sense of self it's not that
I'm rich but it's like I've created this
I'm worth something your sense of
self-elevator because of what you've
done and achieved and you grew up a bit
too and so your sense of self went up
and people like people with a strong
sense of themselves it's very attractive
it's actually very sexy confidence is
really sexy a sense of who you are is
very sexy for men and women so without
knowing it that's what you got and from
25 to 30 in that period I no longer had
that issue I felt that I could attract
someone that I wanted if I pursued
someone I thought I went into it
thinking you know the choice is going to
be mine yeah and uh the least humble
where I possibly can and I fell in love
with someone and I've been with them
ever since I was actually working with
someone who won the lottery and he was I
said you know what happens when I won
the lottery women became more orgasmic I
said you know that happens all over the
world when men win the lottery their
girlfriends become more orgasm yeah I
don't understand it and it was he
couldn't understand it it was a bit of a
joke that of course they became more
orgasmic because he became so attractive
to them because he'd won the lottery
so that was very funny makes so much
sense so people are going to hear that
and go so you can't think that's what I
I came to learn from that 10 years ago I
say it's all my friends now I give them
I give them I give them this uh oh
everything I know about some of the
books I read about how to be high value
and then I tell them the story that
between 20 and 25 yeah I read all these
books and I still couldn't do anything
about it so reading the books is not
enough because you can't fake it and I
say to some of my best friends and it's
one of my close girlfriends I said um
it's almost like there's a thousand
little micro expressions of low value
that we we give off in language is just
it's a new form of communication versus
the like thousand tiny things we don't
know we do which which tell the person
that we don't value ourselves we have no
self-esteem and we're not confident if
you're looking for self-asseme anywhere
outside of yourself you're not going to
find it if you're looking for
self-esteem out there with the jasmines
of the world or someone unless you're
looking for in here you're never going
to find it so stop looking out there
self-esteem is not out there it's in
here and just spend some time saying hey
um I can elevate my sense of self-worth
self-value self-image you see
self-esteem means if I say Stephen I
hold you in the highest of esteem that's
what I think of you but self is
important I think of me
and what happens is we start to poke
holes in our self-esteem by saying I'm
not good enough I'm not rich enough
smart enough attractive enough qualified
enough
and you've got to go back and go no I I
can raise myself see my matter just the
way I am I matter I'm enough I'm lovable
and you know my dad always had the job
of any school is to raise the kids
self-esteem that's more important than
learning Latin or Sport and all schools
their job is to raise kids up and
parenting too your job as a parent is to
raise your kids selfish but nobody
teaches us that we think oh no it's
organic broccoli and making you safe and
making you learn Mandarin to send you a
good school no your job is to raise kids
with good self-esteem
and then they'll have relations with
who've got good self-resum if it only
will work on self-esteem the world would
be so much better how would you have
what would you have done with 20 year
old Steve if he'd come to you and said
listen Marissa I've pursued all these
women they all seem to not value me yeah
well I would have gone right back to
look at what was happening when you were
growing up what was going on with your
mom and dad where did you get these
beliefs from what happened to you you
know it's not what's wrong with you it's
what happened to you should never say
what's wrong with you what happened to
you in your formative years what did you
see growing up with your mum and dad
what did you see so if we look at you
know Paul McCartney Who Loved Linda and
all his children have got very secure
relate Stella's got four children
amazing parent Mary he's got three
children but they're very happy they've
stayed with us because they they learned
what they live you learn what you live
what did you learn what did you live
that you learned which was that marriage
is a horrible place you can't escape
from it's punishing
it's not a place of sanctity or love or
support something completely different
I also think I just learned that I was
at a very young age that
think maybe that I learned that I was
unlovable at some some level because I
think
about being a black kid in an all-white
area where your house is like
dilapidated I think that's the right
word well you can't never brought anyone
home never brought a girl home in the 16
odd years that I lived in Plymouth never
brought anyone home no one knew where I
lived I had this like constant shame
yeah shame and I showed up as if I was a
confident kid like you know it was an ax
yeah and you weren't home feeling a
scent you see
one of the I taught 16 000 therapists
all over the world and I teach them so
there's only three things wrong with
every person that turns up at your door
only three things one of them is I'm
different so I can't connect the next
one is I want something that's not
available to me and the third one is I'm
not enough
there's a lot of versions I'm not smart
enough good enough but when you told me
that little boy who was a black kid in a
white world living in a shambolic house
never bringing people home
straight away you're saying I was
different and if I'm Different I can't
connect because we connect by being the
same because I like Postman pets so do I
I like pasta so do I I like Barbie so do
I oh you're my friend but when you're
different you can't connect so you you
first had that first thing I'm different
so I can't connect what I want
being the same as all the other kids is
not available to me and if you think
you're unlovable then you have to think
you're not enough but of course that's
what you felt the truth is you're deeply
lovable just the way you are but it's
very hard when you don't feel it so when
you you know your feelings the most real
thing you have and we're always trying
to use logic but logic doesn't work
because in a battle between emotion and
logic emotion wins every single time so
the emotion of being this kid who felt
different not enough not the same you
can't logic that better yes you can
achieve a lot and work hard and be a
millionaire remember John Lennon said
the thing you can't hide is when you're
crippled inside and so you're trying to
fake it till you make it but then you
just end up feeling like a big fake you
have to go back and look at okay I felt
different but here's an interesting
thing if our greatest fears to feel
different it must have been on the same
as everyone because that's our greatest
fear to be different we used to be cast
out for different vanished for being
different but actually if you fear being
different all right that means you're
the same as everyone because you've got
the same fears
and what wasn't available now you've
made it available many years ago
and you're deeply level and more than
enough that you have to kind of go back
and look at that old scenes again but
that's not me anymore of course it's not
me so just stating why it isn't you is
actually one of the most
transformational things you can ever do
as we're so busy looking for how it is
us you know here's a rule of the Mind
whatever you look for
you will find whatever you focus on you
get more so when you look at how it's
still you or still there or still
bothering you
then you'll find it and interesting I
think when you look at the mess in your
room you remember the shambolic house
and that's why it bothers you not
because it's messy because you were
brought up in a shambolic house now you
come back and think oh look at this room
I've recreated the same instead of
saying actually I'm in a five-star hotel
there's a maid next door it's a little
bit messy it's not shambolic but you see
what your brain is looking for is what's
the same and it will always find it but
if you look for what's different
you'll find that too so when you have a
brilliant brain which we all have and
you definitely have a so that you've got
to talk yourself out of it not into it
you're talking yourself into how the
messy room is the same as a messy home
and it bothers you greatly because it
feels out of your control which it was
when you're a kid living in that house
don't talk because I haven't talk
yourself out of it oh yeah I have
created a mess but hey I'm a super
successful guy I'm busy someone's going
to come in and clean all of this up and
it's not the same it's vastly different
but our mind is always looking for
what's the same because it loves what is
familiar after all you know if you were
two-year-old kid living in the prayer
and you wanted out on the Prairie you'd
only eat the berries you already knew
you wouldn't eat anything unfamiliar
because it would have killed you so our
primitive brain wants to go back to what
is familiar back to what is known back
to what is comfortable
I was on there just before I actually
came in the door earlier
um and it said that the dietless life
resolves the underlying cause of
overeating
I let me confess I am someone that works
out pretty much every day I'll work out
today
although I'm going to that Fred Again
concert so that might be difficult
that's a workout I work out pretty much
every day of the week
um the thing that's holding me back is
once in a while I'll get into a little
bit of like a sugar spiral what I mean
by that is I'll eat some sugar and then
the next day I'll eat some more sugar
and then the next day I might have
something very addictive yeah I've
actually given up alcohol I've not told
anybody but I've given a power call
completely but this sugar thing seems to
be something that I'm like I'm like
battling with it will happen you know
once a month and then it could last for
like a couple of weeks where I just
start eating things that I'm like why am
I eating that and then I'll get control
again of the ship
how do I avoid sugar I don't like it I
don't want it I actually when someone
hands me something like the first thing
I check is the sugar contents don't want
it in my life anymore I've made that
decision like oh goodbye but it seems to
grab me so your mind always goes back to
what something means so let's talk about
little Steve and what did sugar and all
the sugar Retreats mean to you when
you're a kid what did they mean
well in our house we weren't allowed
them and we didn't have them yeah
probably the only family again because
of money issues that we didn't have any
nice things in the fridge yeah so I
would go to the corner shop after school
and I would steal as much of the sweets
as I possibly could and then how did you
feel so let's close your eyes a minute
okay just remember be that little boy
you've just stolen them you've just got
them it's okay that you took them most
kids do that what do you feel like when
you've suddenly got them in your pockets
or you're eating them what's the feeling
I feel in control
I feel like my friends I guess so keep
your eyes closed and imagine you now
you're grown up Stephen and suddenly
it's one evening and you want this
sugary stuff and you want it the next
day and the next day I want you to say
this when I say when I can't have sugar
when I don't have sugar say it
repeatedly we don't have sugar when I
don't have sugar I feel like that little
kid who is deprived of sugar I feel like
that little kid that was depressed and
that makes me feel
out of control because
just said the word because it makes
people out of control because because I
lived in a house where I didn't have the
ability to get the things I wanted sure
so you can open your eyes now so the
adult you you see it's not the chocolate
it's the feeling you felt when you
couldn't have it so when people go on a
diet this is what happens I can't have
any of that stuff I can only have
lettuce and they have this traffic light
red everything's banned
Amber okay and green is like lettuce
salad carrots grilled fish and you think
yeah but I want all the red stuff it's
the mind says if I can't have it I want
to I want it so much
so again you've got to talk yourself
saying hey you know I can have chocolate
every day for the rest of my life it's
always I can have it and I can have it
in abundance I can have a breakfast
lunch and dinner and here's the magic
sentence that changes your life I'm
choosing to say no and I'm choosing to
love it I mean my parents are a bit like
that no sugar sorry
I'm choosing to say no to chocolate and
I'm choosing to love it I'm choosing to
say no to kids treats and I'm choosing
to love it I think one of my clients
who's a billionaire who goes on his boat
on his yacht and takes all these things
like Refreshers and sherbet stuff
because he wasn't allowed them as a
child and even his own chef
that makes him happy because it's
something that was forbidden and so when
he gets it he thinks oh I feel so
thrilled because it did that when you
look at it made you happy so you're
looking for the feeling not the thing
and you can give yourself the feeling
without the thing anyway
so as you can remember I feel the same
when I want it and I feel the same when
I get it but could I get the feeling
without having it of course you could
it's really easy too
should I should I hypnotize you back to
that little boy that wanted the sugar so
badly so we can change it
would you like that should we do it now
let's do it now okay being hypnotized is
really easy I'll show you what you do
okay it's about the eye so if you look
at me you're going to look up like that
breathe in
breathe out
take another deep breath keeping your
eyeballs up every time you blink deep
powerful hypnosis is coming upon you
breathe out and just one more time keep
your eyeballs up and this time
the more you blink the deeper you're
going to hypnosis as you exhale keep
your eyeballs up close your eyelids down
and I'm going to tell you Stephen that
your eyelids are locked shut glued shut
seal together your eyelids are glue
tight try to open your eyes find their
locked shut
go deeper
try to open your eyes find they are
glued tight go deeper and one more time
try to open your eyes by they are fused
together go deeper deeper deeper
your mind Stephen knows exactly what
chocolate and children's sweets
represent to you
I'm going to count back with some five
to one your brilliant mind is going to
take you right back easily powerfully to
a scene
that is all to do with why as an adult
you keep going back to Sugar the minute
you get that information it's going to
be such a game changer and of course you
can't relive anything it's not possible
you can only review you can't relive
being that little boy but you can review
it
and anything you go about even if it's
sad you're going to look at it with
fascination with Insight with innate
understanding of how those scenes then
shaped you today so let's go
so you're about seven describe what's
happening in this scene
I'm sat on a grass hill
have these
these boring
sandwiches in My Lunchbox I want you to
it's very important to feel the feeling
you're doing fantastic when you say I'm
looking at my lunchbox I'm seven years
old and I feel so disappointed
I'm looking at
The Lunchbox I'm seven years old and I
feel so disappointed
is there anything you can do to change
the lunch box
no I
I could steal some money from somewhere
to buy the things I want or I could swap
or steal some other food or something
how else is that little kid feeling
buying
sugar or getting it mix
me feel
makes me feel powerful sure you know
there's always been that kind of
underlying thing because I could never
have it yeah as an adult it's kind of
like an expression of like my my new
autonomy yeah like you know I can have
whatever I want
so now I want you to go back to the
little kid sitting on the grassy bank
with a just winning lunch I want you to
say to me that's not me anymore because
you need to tell me exactly why justify
and tell me why that's not you so repeat
after me that little kid on that little
kid on the grassy bank with a
disappointing lunch box that little kid
on the grassy bank with the
disappointing lunch it's not me it's not
me and will never be me ever again and
we'll never be ever again because
because
I can have whatever I want now you're
not seven your mother doesn't provide
your lunch every day does she no and if
she did and you hated it couldn't you go
out and get whatever you want yeah I
would say that's not me that's not me
I'll never be seven I'll never be the
disappointing lunch ever again are they
disappointing lunch I'll never be seven
having less than other people ever again
I'll never be seven having less than
other people ever that can't be me that
can't be me I can have whatever I want
now I can have whatever I want and what
I really want and what I really want is
to be indifferent to sugar
I want you to think of the words that
little kid needed to hear
you know better than me that when you
were seven eight nine ten what you most
needed to hear what you most needed to
feel that you were the same that you
were equal you had everything others had
and I want you to repeat some of those
words you can do it in your head or out
loud what are the missing words you've
never heard and always wanted to hear
you have the same
resources and money and value as all of
your friends so say that little kid you
have the same money you have the same
amount of money the same resources same
resources
same stuff everyone else has the same
stuff that everyone else has you're
smart you're smart and as you grow up
as you grow up you create everything for
yourself you create everything for
yourself
you see chocolate doesn't free you from
feeling that you can't have it it
actually reminds you far from solving
your issues it reminds you of that kid
it pulls you right back it doesn't set
you free it pulls you back to that
memory of that kid who could never have
anybody I don't need to remember that
anymore
because that isn't me because that isn't
me and that will never be me and that
will never be I can eat sugar every day
for the rest of my long gorgeous life I
can eat sugar every day for the rest of
my long what I really require what I
really require is complete and utter
indifference is complete and
playing this recording so my voice goes
with you stays with you until soon don't
even need this recording it's wired and
fired and coded into you it's who you
are not what you do
and it makes you feel amazing so knowing
it feeling it believing it being it
becoming it
just slowly calmly easily just open your
eyes
come back into the room
how do you feel
oh I forgot where I was
at least I thought it was somewhere else
that's the great thing about hypnosis
you know you forget where you are the
critical Factor shuts down some things
only happen in hypnosis it's a critical
Factor shuts down
it accepts things it can't accept
consciously what is going on there what
is going on well your conscious mind is
completely shut down the subconscious
that knows that the subconscious is
always switched on is always on record
and it remembers everything and your
subconscious is accessing memories but
you're really getting the feeling
because the thing is it therapy doesn't
get the feeling it says we did this you
want to feel the feeling to say oh I see
I'm trying to get the feeling but I
don't even need that feeling I can be
free now
also time I looked at the time and
so much time has passed but it seems
like five minutes yeah it feels like it
was just a few minutes that's how you
know hypnosis is so powerful because you
lose all track of time time stops but
the subconscious mind which is running
the show really takes over
do you know what we'll do in this
episode
um this episode will take a couple of
weeks to come out so I'll do an insert
about how I got on with yeah I'd love
that my relationship with sugars
okay guys this is two weeks after I
recorded with Marissa and I want to tell
you the results
I've not touched sugar and I've also
more importantly not had any sugar
Cravings whatsoever and when I say sugar
I don't mean you know natural sugar that
occurs in Natural Foods I mean the
really sugary foods that are processed
that I didn't want to eat I've had no
Cravings whatsoever for sugar and I've
been around chocolate and Percy pigs in
the lot and we're two weeks on from the
conversation with Marissa I've lost
weight my sleep has therefore improved
because I'm not eating sugar and I'm not
getting these Peaks and crashes that I
used to get so I can confirm that
Marissa's hypnosis worked and if you
want to watch the whole hypnosis session
which is just over 25 minutes long the
whole thing I've linked it below on our
Clips channel so you can watch the whole
thing it's a little bit long and it
might be boring for some of you
but for those of you that want to see
the full 25 plus minutes it's down below
in the description on our Clips Channel
on YouTube back to the episode
you you must have so many case studies
in your life of how hypnosis is just so
many people who did dial this live and
said you know I don't eat sugar I didn't
even know someone said you know I can't
even have a cappuccino with a chocolate
I have to say oh no sorry you got to
take that off because I'm simply so
indifferent to sugar and then you start
to taste how fake it is how horrible it
is because your body actually you know
your body never says Hey knock me out
with sugar the body hates it's the mind
just like the Mind might go for alcohol
or drugs until you can get into the mind
and say you know it's easy to make a
better choice because you've chosen it
one of my maybe one of my my best
friends in the world I have six best
friends one of my best friends in the
world
can't can't eat basically anything he's
he's in his mid-thirties now and for
whatever reason
some psychological reason he just can't
when we go to restaurants he can't order
anything he never has yeah known him for
10 10 years he basically only eats like
a couple of things and there's something
going on where he thinks like I don't
know the texture of other things see
basically it's like crackers crisps
biscuits I was in Dubai in February the
girl called Sarah who don't you could
only eat meat couldn't eat anything else
but meat and I said I can fix that in an
hour and I did we went back to why
and now she eats everything cake pasta
because before she was in so much pain
and she did it she'd straight away in
one session it was a game changer I had
many kids to say I can only eat cheese
and white bread but give him my number I
can change that in an hour we've tried
so many things over the years you need
to try the thing that works yeah proper
hypnosis it works all the time because
that magic only happens when you get
into that network of intelligence can
understand what's going on when you can
send different messages to the feeling
mind because it's no good doing it
logically it's like saying to an
alcoholic now come on have a lovely cup
of tea you don't need the alcohol look
at you like you're mad because logic
can't defeat emotion because there's
emotion about I can only eat crackers is
so powerful but you can find a better
emotion where does that come from what
was going on like the emotion of that
little Stephen saying I want to have the
chocolate I feel better I feel more
powerful I feel the same as other people
and that was the driver and I can say
well I don't need to do that I'm already
powerful and amazing and equal to all my
friends you took me to a place that I've
not been before I actually remembered
things that I hadn't ever remembered
what kind of things The Lunchbox thing I
never remembered my lunchbox show that's
a new thing which I I'm coming from
being sat on that hill during summer and
just opening the lunch box it's just
this horrible powerlessness it's called
learned helplessness and learned
hopelessness I can't accept this but I
can't change it I don't know there's
nothing I can do about it because you
know you don't want it's not the scene
it's the feeling within this in that's
what you got did so beautifully that kid
who felt powerless frustrated
disappointed but could do nothing I
could steal and yeah of course but
that's I mean that's okay get all kids
do that but that wasn't really the thing
that gate you could do it but that
wasn't really your choice you wanted to
have the money that Ashley had to go
into the shop you want to have the
parents to say here's the money go and
buy yourself something lovely but you
didn't have that
but when you stole the stuff you got the
same feeling but it was never really the
same because you had the shame and the
guilt and the blame attachment now you
can let all of that go
so interesting I've never actually felt
like that before I've never remembered
so many things and time just seemed to
stand still and um I realized things
about my relationship with food that
have been
maybe locked up in the back room
somewhere that I didn't realize so thank
you for that really really powerful it's
my first time ever doing anything with
hypnosis but also the shame about the
messy room where that comes from too
yeah same feeling that you couldn't fix
it when of course you can you can say I
love putting stuff away it feels amazing
I wasn't sure whether I'm messy because
it reminds me of home so a messy room
makes me feel more comfortable or if
it's the opposite like you know I've
never been sure which one it one which
one it is well it's just I think it
because you lived in a messy home it was
familiar it was easy no one said tidy up
put that away so if you're in the Army
friends you say oh no I make my bed and
because you learned a certain way but
you learn the opposite just everything's
in a mess so the two things that you
learned is familiar but also it's deeply
disappointing because it makes you feel
oh God there's a mess again and I can't
fix it when the truth is you can you've
always got a choice the worst thing is I
can't change it and I can't accept it I
can't change it I can't accept I can't
change them as I can't okay I can accept
let's go hey I'm messy and I love it
like an artist or you can say I can
change it but it's like I can't change
it and I can't accept it accept it
my daughter loves living in a mess
because she's an artist she doesn't even
see it or you can say
I can change it by changing how I think
just say I love putting stuff away it
makes me feel powerful and if you say it
enough it will become real because your
words create your reality and if you
don't like your reality you don't have
to change your word you have to change
the way you're speaking which
immediately changes your reality which
is completely shaped by your words
quick one I discovered a product which
has changed my life called Eight sleep
and I'm so proud to say today that I had
a chat with the founder of the brand and
they are now a podcast sponsor and one
of the things I've come to learn on this
podcast from speaking with Sleep Experts
like Matthew Walker is how important
temperature is when it comes to sleep
the temperature of your room the
temperature of your bed and also one of
the big insights I had from speaking to
some experts was that the temperature of
the room should fluctuate throughout the
night as you move through different
stages of sleep so when you first get
into bed it should be quite cool in bed
it should then get a little bit cooler
and then the temperature should increase
near the end and that is a reflection of
what would have happened in nature once
upon a time you've probably come to
learn that I have sponsors on this
podcast that I use and products that I
love my sponsors should be a reflection
of the conversations I'm having but also
a reflection of what I'm using in my
life so to celebrate them being a new
podcast sponsor I always want to get a
discount for you guys and I've got one
go to eight sleep com which is e i g h t
sleep.com slash Steven and if you do
that you'll save a hundred and fifty
dollars on the Pod cover that I have on
my bed the one I'm talking about grab
your pod cover send me a DM and let me
know how you get on
Marissa thank you you're so welcome we
have a closing tradition where the last
Association for the next guest the
question left fuse very good one in fact
it's very um very relevant if there was
one sentence that everyone should
believe about themselves that would have
the most
positive impact on their life
what sentence is that I'm enough all my
bracelets say it I live it I have I
created the army knife movement which
I'm so proud of it would be I am enough
I have so many schools having kids say
that says this is change bullying in
this school it's changed the way kids
perform academies change the way they
they behave emotionally they all have a
little plaque on they have to say it
I am enough
that's my favorite statement because
it's the truth about everyone but we
just don't know it we often think well
I'm not enough and if I'm not enough I
need more more chocolate more followers
more drinks more shopping
I'm enough
is a statement that can change your
whole life if you state it affirm it and
it will sink in
Marissa thank you everyone that's
listening to this now should definitely
head over to your website because
there's so much there whether they want
to be trained by you or whether they
want to come to one of your events I was
in there rummaging around and actually
ran out of time because there was so
much so many resources that's how I
found the dieting stuff and the coaching
stuff and the events and a lot of free
stuff too we give away so much free
stuff I know YouTube channel is another
example of where you're just giving away
you know hundreds of videos of sure for
free so thank you for the work you do
you're a huge inspiration to me that's
why I wanted to have you back on but
also it's my girlfriend who's actually
upstairs and talks about you all the
time how lovely um and she's you know
training and doing um several courses I
believe she's done some of yours as well
but you are a Force for good in the
world thank you so much it's so
wonderful to hear that your work is now
moving into schools and the curriculum
and it's so exciting incredible just
incredible thank you for being who you
are I really appreciate him
as you guys may know we are a sponsor of
this podcast and I'm a shareholder in
the company as someone that is on the go
pretty much 90 of the time I always
prioritize getting my workout in and for
me it's a non-negotiable working out
staying healthy and trying to optimize
my body so I can achieve the results
that I want but a new addition to my
lifestyle which complements my busy work
schedule and my tough workout schedule
is my prioritization of my rest and my
recovery I never quite knew how
important it was until I started my woop
journey to understand exactly what's
going on in my body and how to look
after my body moop is a wearable health
and wellness coach that provides you
with the feedback and actionable
insights you need on your sleep your
recovery your training your stress and
your overall health and seeing this data
that we provides has made it 10 times
easier to understand what my body needs
for it to reach its optimal State
helping me to conquer those long days
and tough workouts without breaking down
see for yourself by searching
join.woop.com
CEO to get a free month free week
membership on me and I have a suspicion
you'll stick with it because I certainly
have and I don't stick with much as it
relates to wearable tech enjoy it and
let me know how you get on as you may
know this podcast is sponsored by huel
if you're living under a rock you might
have missed that and he all has such a
wide range of products now but there is
a great way to try all of them this is
the huel best seller bundle perfectly
curated so that you can try all of the
favorite products and decide which ones
are your favorites the best seller
bundle has a range of meals and bars
including the iconic heel Shaker the pot
and a free t-shirt which if you've got
the free heel t-shirt you'll understand
how well that t-shirt fits I'm not just
saying that it really really is
phenomenal if you've heard me talking
about cure but haven't tried it for some
reason then this is a great option for
you to get to know the range and find
the product that works best for you I've
tried every single heel product in the
boardroom in the development
Laboratories and in my home and there's
a couple of products which have just
revolutionized my life because they meet
the requirements that I'm looking for so
if you're looking to try heal for the
first time and to get into it and to
join the hooligan family I'd highly
recommend you try this out
[Music]
oh